4 June: Add Database Burst Balance graph (#2480)
mendix/docs: content/developerportal/operate/trends-v4.md

Value | Explanation
------------ | -------------
**read** | Read ops on the disk holding the database. 
**write** | Write ops on the disk holding the database.

### 5.11 Database Burst Balance {#Trends-appmxdatabaseburstbalance}

The **Database burst balance** graph shows the number of credits accrued to support burstable performance. The metric is expressed as percentage; 100% means that the volume has accumulated the maximum number of credits.

![](attachments/trends-v4/db-burst-balance.png)

> Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. This baseline varies from 5% to 20%.

Author: From the **Instance Features** section of https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/#burst

> T instances’ baseline performance and ability to burst are governed by CPU Credits. Each T instance receives CPU Credits continuously, the rate of which depends on the instance size. T instances accrue CPU Credits when they are idle, and use CPU credits when they are active. A CPU Credit provides the performance of a full CPU core for one minute.

> For example, a t2.small instance receives credits continuously at a rate of 12 CPU Credits per hour. This capability provides baseline performance equivalent to 20% of a CPU core (20% x 60 mins = 12 mins). If the instance does not use the credits it receives, they are stored in its CPU Credit balance up to a maximum of 288 CPU Credits. When the t2.small instance needs to burst to more than 20% of a core, it draws from its CPU Credit balance to handle this surge automatically.

> With T2 Unlimited enabled, the t2.small instance can burst above the baseline even after its CPU Credit balance is drawn down to zero. For a vast majority of general purpose workloads where the average CPU utilization is at or below the baseline performance, the basic hourly price for t2.small covers all CPU bursts. If the instance happens to run at an average 25% CPU utilization (5% above baseline) over a period of 24 hours after its CPU Credit balance is drawn to zero, it will be charged an additional 6 cents (5 cents/vCPU-hour x 1 vCPU x 5% x 24 hours).

So the baseline performance is this percentage of the core CPU and if you use more than this percentage then your credits start going down.

> Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. This baseline varies from 5% to 20%.

Author: ```suggestion
Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. This baseline varies from 5% to 20% of the core CPU depending on the database in your plan.
```

> Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. This baseline varies from 5% to 20%.

Author: There is actually a table here: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/burstable-credits-baseline-concepts.html which shows that some databases have a higher percentage. They may have changed it, or perhaps I only looked at the databases we were using at the time I originally wrote it.

Is it better just to remove the percentage figure from the documentation altogether, or link to this page? Do users know which database they get with their plan?

> Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. This baseline varies from 5% to 20%.

Reviewer: @MarkvanMents I'd say remove the percentages and just link to this document. I think most users need not to be confused with the numbers, but give them the option to dive into more detail if needed.
@tomedegroot What do you think?

> Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. This baseline varies from 5% to 20%.

Author: Thanks Matyas. Perhaps this instead?
```suggestion
Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. See the AWS document [CPU credits and baseline performance for burstable performance instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/burstable-credits-baseline-concepts.html) for more information .
```

> Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. This baseline varies from 5% to 20%.

Reviewer 2: @MarkvanMents Coincidently I came across this PR, if I'm not mistaken, these new graphs are for the RDS instances, not EC2 instances. So the proper AWS documentation can be found at: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/MonitoringOverview.html

Also, it's about General Purpose IOPS performance and FreeableMemory.

@matyaskti feel free to chip in here.

> Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. This baseline varies from 5% to 20%.

Reviewer: Good catch, this is exactly what we need!

> Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. This baseline varies from 5% to 20%.

Author: OK, I'll make this change:
```suggestion
Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. See the AWS document [Overview of Monitoring Amazon RDS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/MonitoringOverview.html) for more information.
```

> Apps running on Mendix Cloud V4 use AWS databases to store their data. These databases are **burstable**, which means that it has a specified performance baseline. This baseline varies from 5% to 20%.

Author: Thanks for all your input.

> From the AWS documentation: *If a burstable performance instance uses fewer CPU resources than is required for baseline performance (such as when it is idle), the unspent CPU credits are accrued in the CPU credit balance. If a burstable performance instance needs to burst above the baseline performance level, it spends the accrued credits. The more credits that a burstable performance instance has accrued, the more time it can burst beyond its baseline when more performance is needed.*

Reviewer 3: @MarkvanMents can this be adjusted? It's not CPU BurstBalance, it's IOPS BurstBalance. So can this be adjusted and please refer to https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonRDS/latest/UserGuide/CHAP_Storage.html
